chain - When connected to a block, if that block is moved by a piston, so will the Chain and anything else on the other end.
chute - Drops any items fed into it by a Hopper/Dropper into the world directly below.
ender_watcher - Emits a redstone signal based on how close to the center of the eye a player is looking.
feeding_trough - Animals can eat any items put in this and breed from it. Sometimes they may eat in excess, will not breed if there's too many nearby, and will not produce XP.
gravisand - Only falls when given a redstone signal, taking adjacent ones along with it. If it can't fall, it'll float upwards. Emits a comparator signal of 15.
iron_rid - Will break any blocks in front of it when pushed with a piston.
jukebox - Use a Dispenser to place discs into the Jukebox to automatically play music.
iron_button - Emits a very short, 2 redstone tick, pulse.
gold_button - Emits a very long, 5 second, pulse
redstone_randomizer - Randomly repeats the given signal either left or right.
charcoal_block - Burns forever just like Netherrack.
blaze_lantern - Burns forever just like Netherrack.
golden_apple_crate - Can be used as a Beacon base.
glass_item_frame and glow_glass_item_frame - Hides the frame when an item is put inside to show only the item. Has custom behavior for Banners and Shields, and can sit flush with a Sign that's on the floor. Can also be right clicked through to open any inventory behind it.
hollow_logs - Can be crawled into by sneaking into their entrance, can also be climbed when you're inside.
iron_grate - Animals that aren't leashed will not walk on this, and items will fall through.
potted stuff - Can now be added to a Flower Pot.
rope - Must be placed on a ceiling and can be climbed. Can be right clicked onto other Rope to drop down, or up while sneaking. Can move the block that's on the edge.
vine - Shears can now be used to cut the tip of the Vine to prevent it from growing further.
stools - Can be sat on, and stay sat on when moved by a piston. Placing a block on top will change the stool to a table.
sturdy_stone - Can not be moved by pistons.
blackstone_furnace - If the block under this furnace produces Soul Fire when lit, the furnace will do too.
posts - Can be placed in any axis. Chains and Lanaterns can connect to this block.
candles - When placed on any block that can produce Soul Fire when lit, it'll do so as well.
wool - Can be used to silence minecarts if placed under the rail.
shulker boxes - Items can be right clicked onto the Shulker Box much like you would for a Bundle.
lava_bucket - Right click an item in your inventory onto the Lava Bucket to destroy it forever! Shulker Boxes and items that are immune to fire such as Netherrack can not be destroyed this way.
armor_stand - Right click a placed Armor Stand while sneaking to quickly swap all your armor with it.
crab_leg and crab_shell - Crabs can be found in Beaches, and bred with Wheat, Chicken, or any type of Fish.
explorers_hat - Forgotten can be found deep underground, be wary of their powerful equipment.
heart_of_diamond - Can be gotten by killing Stonelings underground. If you see a small creature holding an item, that's one! Sneak up to it so it doesn't notice you, or use a Glow Shroom to bait it.
soul_bead - Get this by killing Wraiths in Soul Sand Valleys. Will fly towards the nearest Nether Fortress when used.
abacus - Use this on a block and it'll count the distance between the block you're looking at and the one you clicked, up to 48 blocks.
ambience_discs - Ambience Discs can be gotten when a Skeleton kills a Spider. Unlike Music Discs, these loop infinitely.
bottled_cloud - Get this by using a Glass Bottle when at Cloud level. Can be right clicked onto the air to create a temporary block that other blocks can be placed on.
bundle - A recipe for this has been added.
color_runes - Combine in an Anvil with an enchanted item to change its color. This is purely visual.
endermosh_music_disc - Can be found in End Cities.
parrot_eggs - Throw to create a baby parrot. Feed a parrot many Beetroot Seeds until it loves you, and then it'll hatch one after 10 minutes.
pathfinders_quill - Can be used to find the biome inscribed in it. Trade for it from Cartographers or Wandering Traders.
seed_pouch - Can hold up to 10 stacks of any seed or sapling, simply right click them in and out. The pouch can also automatically pick up seeds if you're holding it, or place 3x3 areas by using it.
skeleton_skull, zombie_head, creeper_head - When placed over a fence, simple monsters that wander close by will be scared and run away.
slime_bucket - Use a Bucket on a tiny slime to pick it up. It'll start jumping in the bucket when you're inside a slime chunk.
torch_arrow - Will place an arrow wherever it lands.
trowel - Randomly places a block from your hotbar when used. You can have the same block in multiple slots to increase its odds.
rocket - Can be used to start flying with an Elytra without needing to jump first.
campfire - Will boost players flying with an Elytra above it further upwards.
soul_campfire - Will pull flayers flying with an Elytra above it down towards the ground.
clock - Must be crafted before it does anything to prevent funny recipe book cheese.
door - When creating a double door, they'll open/close together.
fence_gate - When another fence gate is placed above or below it, they'll open/close together.
dragon_scale - Drops from the Ender Dragon from any kills beyond the first.
item_frame, glow_item_frame - Can be dyed the same way you'd dye leather armor.
gold_tools - Gold tools come with a baked in Fortune or Looting II effect. This does not stack with the enchantment version of it, only the highest will apply.
hoes - Hoes can now break a 3 wide area of vegetation at once. Higher tier hoes such as Diamond or Netherrack can break 5.
banner - Banners have been upgraded to have up to %d layers now.
mob heads - Any monster head can be placed on the side of a Note Block to emit its sound when the Note Block is powered.
amethyst block - Can be placed under a Note Block to make it emit the iconic Amethyst sound.
porkchop - Pigs now breed in litters of 2-3, upwards of 5 when bred with a Golden Carrot.
poison_potato - When fed to a baby animal, it has a chance of poisoning them. If the animal is poisoned, it'll never grow into an adult.
spore_blossom - Can now be renewed with Bone Meal.
scaffold - Right clicking the Scaffold with any block will replace the furthermost scaffold with the block. Sneak to use the normal placing.
shulker_shell and all shulker boxes - Chests can be converted to Shulker Boxes without breaking them by using two Shulker Shells on one at once, one in each hand.
sign_editing - Signs can be edited by right clicking on them.
magma_cream - A Slime that dies to Magma will split into Magma Cubes instead.
player_head and name_tag - Having a Witch kill a named Snow Golen will drop the Player Head matching the golem's name.
sponge - Can now be placed directly on Water.
emerald_block - Can be used to make Villagers follow you much like how animals follow food items.
ancient_sapling - Can be found in Ancient City chests.
ancient_fruit - Gives you a small amount of XP when eaten.
azalea, flowering_azalea - Now produces Azalea Wood instead of Oak.
blue_blossom_sapling - Can be found in cold biomes.
lavender_blossom_sapling - Can be found in swamps.
orange_blossom_sapling - Can be found in savannas.
pink_blossom_sapling - Can be found in moutanins.
yellow_blossom_sapling - Can be found in plains.
red_blossom_sapling - Can be found in badlands.
chorus_weeds, chorus_twist - Uncommon spawns in the barrens of the outer end. Will randomly teleport and reproduce over time or if forced via trampling, bone meal, or adajcent water. May also spawn Endermites when trampled. 
corundum - Can be found underground in large clusters of two colors each. Will slowly grow upwards if placed deep underground. Can be waxed to prevent growth and particle emission.
amethyst_cluster - Can redirect Beacon beams. Check the Beacon item for info.
glow_lichen_growth - Found in the rare Glimmering Weald biome underground.
glow_shroom - Found in the rare Glimmering Weald biome underground. Bone Meal can be used to create a large variant.
permafrost - Can be found towards the top of Frozen Peaks.
limestone - Can be found in big clusters in swamps and oceans.
jasper - Can be found in big clusters in mesas and deserts.
shale - Can be found in big clusters in cold biomes.
myalite - Can be found in big clusters in the outer end highlands. Its color changes based on where its placed.
calcite - Additional large calcite clusters are added to mountains.
backpack - Wear this to gain an additional three rows of inventory space.
crate - Can hold up to %d items, regardless of their stack size. Not that great for bulk storage, but fantastic for unstackables or a large variety of random items.
tiny_potato - It believes in you!

piston and sticky_piston 
- Can now push complex blocks (aka Tile Entities), except Monster Spawners.
- Try Sturdy Stone if you need an immovable block for a machine.
- The max amount of blocks that can be moved has also been changed to %d.

ancient_tomes 
- Can upgrade an item or book's enchantment by one level, up to one above the normal cap. Rarely found in dungeons or strongholds.
- Profecient Librarian villagers may be able to swap any you don't want for other ones too.

beacon
- The beacon beam can be redirected with %s by placing it in the beam's path. Note that the final one must always face towards the sky, and that the beam has a limited horizontal distance it can cover.
- Amethyst
- Corundum

compass
- Can work in other dimensions, pointing towards the entrance portal.
- Must be crafted before it does anything to prevent funny recipe book cheese.

ladders
- Can be right clicked onto another ladder to drop it down.
- As long as there's a structurally sound one behind it, can stand without any blocks behind.
- Looking down while on a ladder will make you descend faster.
- Opening your inventory while a ladder will automatically make you sneak.

corundum_clusters 
- Grows alongside the respective Corundum, either naturally spawned or when left to grow.
- Can redirect Beacom beams, check the Beacon item for info.

myalite_crystals 
- Can be found in Spiral Spires in the outer end. When an Enderman or player using an Ender Pearl teleports adjacent to multiple of these in a line, they'll end up at the other end of the line instead. Forks work, but loops will not.
- Can be grown by placing it under growing Corundum blocks.

pipe 
- Will move items put in with a Hopper/Dropper or equivalent, or via dropped item form on an edge. Items will prefer to fall down, then fowards, then randomly sideways, and only then upwards. 
- Items going into a full container will turn back. Any pipe can be disabled with a Redstone singal, and the amount of items in a Pipe can be read with a Comparator. Pipes with over 16 items will break.

magnet
- Can push and pull any blocks made of Copper or Iron when powered, depending on the side. If multiple magnets are moving the same block, the biggest force will win. A magnet's force on a block is the restone signal it's given minus the distance to the block.
- Hoppers moved with a Magnet will drop one item in front for each block moved. If the item is a seed, it'll try to plant it instead. Stonecutters moved with a Magnet will try to break the block above them.

enchanting_table
- Enchanting now uses a new "Matrix Enchanting" system. Pieces can be generated with Lapis and XP and placed onto a grid. Two pieces of the same type can be merged to upgrade the piece's level. Candles may be used to increase the odds of specific enchantments. Additionally, the Enchanting Table can now hold onto your item and the Lapis in it, hurray! 